###My Entrance into the Information Technology Sector

My progress, within just the last two months, amazes me.  I am blogging about it because, upon reflection, I am already starting to forget small details of this amazing journey. The most recent chapter of my story begins at the end of February when I formally decided to devote my weekends to learning coding.  Prior to that, I had made a committment to follow this path, but was too exhausted to follow through after working full time all week and then part time most weekends.  So, I cleared my schedule and closed my availability to the part-time job.  I started watching lots of developer testimonials on YouTube to find out where to begin.
  
My son, who is already a software engineer, became my primary mentor and advised me to learn React as soon as possible.  He sent me to a couple of tutorials on YouTube, but I found them hard to follow.  Using the command line, which my son also stressed as very important was, and still is, a struggle.  I realized that I needed to review HTML and CSS, and to learn JavaScript first.  I signed up for a course through the University of Michigan on Coursera.  The course's video lessons were all compiled into a 10 hour video that I came across on YouTube.  I liked the instructor Colleen van Lent's teaching style, and I completed the entire     of five courses.  The course offered introductions to HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, and Javascript.  I also gained a solid foundation in best practices including validity, accessibility, and responsiveness.  When I reached the culminating project, it turned out that I had been working on it all along.  After each unit, I would apply what I had learned to my own website.

So my very first official coding project was a hair journey website.  I've been documenting the care and growth of my hair on YouTube since 2019.  I decided to design my own website to connect with my channel.  For the most part, I was pleased with my design, but I knew that I needed to learn much more to improve it.  The deets on my loc journey website are coming soon on GitHub.  I plan to fork the repository from my old Git Hub account and continue working on it.  I have learned enough now about the effects of user agent default browser settings and Bootstrap that can surely manage to finally create the navbar that has had me stumped. I am also considering adding a carousel to the site.  It's a wonderful feeling to have more control now over placement and styling!

Anyway, a very special thing happened at the end of the CSS unit.  Dr. van Lent told us that at this point we were still "noobs", but we did qualify for teaching assistant positions.  She specifically recommeded that we reach out to an organization called Girl Develop It and request to become TAs.  Intrigued, I found and explored the GDI website.  GDI is a non-profit whose mission is to           .  I sent an email to the listed contact.  To my delight, my request was granted!  I participated as TA in a live Zoom class for the first time about a couple of weeks later.  I even had the opportunity to teach a few sections of the course.  I learned about an added perk: GDI TAs are welcome to attend any GDI courses free for one year!  

To date, I have served as TA for three courses: Web Essentials 1, JavaScript ES6, and CSS Animations.  I have signed up as a student for the Python and React courses.  GDI also sponsors virtual community events, such as job fairs and hackathons.  I am so glad for this exciting new opportunity to learn more coding and to make connections with others in the field.  

Meanwhile, I still watch a ton of testimonial videos on YouTube.  I also listen to podcasts on Spotify and read a few blog posts.  Some of these content providers discuss excellent learning resources and ideas which are helping me to focus and narrow my path.  One such video lead me to a boot camp course on Udemy.  I was fortunate to catch a sale, so I paid 25 dollars for a course with a regular price of 119.00 (today's sale price is 19.99!).  Dr. Angela Yu is a phenomenal highly engaging teacher, and her classes have not only brought me to a new level of understanding, they have helped me to start building my portfolio with meaninful projects.

Some of the minutia and intricacies of my journey have been forgotten, but I definitely recall feeling lost and uncertain at times.  Only a few weeks ago, I did not understand a single thing about how to make a site responsive, how to use Bootstrap, or how to navigate GitHub.  And at that time, I could not forsee myself doing either with ease.  Now, when I type a 'g' in Google search, GitHub automatically populates, indicating that I now visit my GitHub more often than I check my Gmail!  In my Udemy course, coming soon in the syllabus are: Node.js, APIs, JSon, Databases, MongoDB, Mongoose, and much more.  Currently, I know little to nothing about any of these.  I must remember my prior experience, and how I eventually learned everything, as I head toward even more daunting tools and languages on the road ahead.

Each of the various courses I have taken have offered different perspectives and have reinforced the most important concepts and best practices in coding.  I figured that this blog post would be extremely long like my last one, but since writing the last post, I have begun documenting my projects on GitHub with detailed README files and more thoughtful git commmit comments.  Please be sure to check out my GitHub for additional updates on my coding  
